Migration guide for `ButtonBar` deprecation (#10325)
flutter/website: src/release/breaking-changes/deprecate-buttonbar.md

---
title: Deprecate `ButtonBar` in favor of `OverflowBar`
description: >-
  The `ButtonBar` widget has been replaced by a more efficient
  widget, `OverflowBar`.
---

## Summary

> The `ButtonBar` widget has been deprecated in favor of the more efficient

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ButtonBar` widget was deprecated in favor of the more efficient
```

`OverflowBar` widget. As a result, the `ThemeData.buttonBarTheme` and

> `ButtonBarTheme` have also been deprecated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ButtonBarTheme` were also deprecated.
```

## Context

> The `ButtonBar` widget lays its children in a row and in a column if there is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ButtonBar` widget lays out its children in a row and in a column if there is
```

not enough horizontal space. The `OverflowBar` widget does the same, but it's
not tied to the Material library and is part of the core widgets library.

## Description of change

- Replace `ButtonBar` widget with `OverflowBar` widget.
- By default, `ButtonBar` aligns its children to the end of the layout, while
  `OverflowBar` aligns its children to the start. To align the `OverflowBar`
  children to the end, set the `OverflowBar.alignment` property to
  `MainAxisAlignment.end`.
- `ButtonBar.buttonPadding` provides spacing between buttons and padding around
  buttons, replace it with `OverflowBar.spacing`, which provides spacing

>   between buttons. Wrap the `OverflowBar`widget with `Padding` widget to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  between buttons. Wrap the `OverflowBar` widget with `Padding` widget to
```

  provide padding around the buttons.
- Replace `ButtonBar.overflowButtonSpacing` with `OverflowBar.overflowSpacing`,
  which provides spacing between buttons when the buttons are laid in a column
  when there is not enough horizontal space.

> - Remove `ButtonBarThemeData` from `ThemeData`, if exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove `ButtonBarThemeData` from `ThemeData`, if it exists.
```
